The astrological
Earth signs are
Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn.
The element of Earth is,
as one might suspect,
being down to earth.
Earth signs tend to have
their feet on the ground.
Earth signs are practical.
In the [INAUDIBLE]
modality of thinking,
Earth signs are
associated with sensation.
There's a direct of the senses
that happen with Earth signs,
because sensing things directly
is what makes them real,
and Earth is real.
It's about the three
dimensional world we live in.
It's not about
action, which is fire.
It's not about the feelings
that we have, which is water,
and it's not about the
intellect, which is air.
Earth is that which we
can see or we can feel
or we can think about or we
can actually engage directly.
The first Earth sign is Taurus.
Taurus is a fixed Earth sign.
This has to do with
holding one's position.
The outstanding
quality about Taurus
is that when it's holding
a position, it's immovable.
I always think of Taurus
as Newton's third law--
an object at rest tends to stay
at rest and an object in motion
tends to stay in motion.
Think of the bull
that is charging.
It's not easy to stop it.
But think of the bull
that isn't going anywhere.
Trying to get it to move
is really difficult.
And while we're on the
image of the bovines,
think of the cows coming back
to the barn in the evening
to be milked.
Because the second quality
of the fixed energy of Taurus
is their unstoppable
determination.
That cow is going to
get back to the barn.
Nothing is going
to get in its way.
Nothing is going to stop it.
Taurus as a fixed
Earth sign is known
to be stubborn, is known to
be able to hold the position
and be really reliable.
If you think of the Earth
sign or the Taurus people
that you know, you
might consider them
amongst the most dependable
people in the zodiac.
The second Earth sign is Virgo.
Virgo is the mutable or
changeable Earn sign.
And as such, it's really the
lightest of the Earth signs.
It's the least earthy
of the Earth signs.
And although it does have to
do with the process of thinking
in the brain, it's not
just about thinking
philosophical thoughts
and ideas that
have no practical
use, because all
the Earth signs are practical.
Virgo has to do with
ideas or thoughts
or facts that can be applied.
Virgo is about usefulness.
The idea of Virgo is how do
I make use of what I have.
And in fact, even in
the body, the colon,
which is the part that's
associated with Virgo,
its singular function
is to separate
that which can be used by the
body from that which can't.
So Virgo as a mutable Earth
sign is practical enough,
because it's an Earth sign,
to use the facts that it
has, but it also is
constantly analyzing the facts
and thinking about how to use
them and what it needs to know
and what it needs to do in
order to get to the place
that it's going based
upon what is true.
The image of Virgo holding
the Virgin or the maiden
holding the wheat and
separating the wheat
from the stalks or
the chaff-- this
is really what Virgo is about.
As an Earth sign, it's
about the binary function.
This is OK.
That's not OK.
That's OK.
It's the sorting function
to determine what is useful.
The third Earth sign is
the sign of Capricorn.
And Capricorn is the
cardinal Earth sign.
Capricorn basically
has movement.
Even though it's
Earth, it has movement.
The cardinal signs are
the season starting signs.
They're the signs
that initiate energy.
As the mountain goat has
movement to climb the mountain,
every Capricorn is wired for
ambition to get to the top
of their local mountain.
Capricorn aspires towards
vertical ascendancy.
And as such, Capricorns
are ambitious.
But again, it's the practicality
that comes to the forefront,
because a Capricorn, a mountain
goat, will never miss step.
The mountain goats that
live on the edge of cliffs
and scamper up the
side of a mountain,
they are exhibiting
the Earth quality
of having their feet
firmly on the ground
even though it looks like
they are in movement.
Each of the three Earth
signs shares that idea
of practicality, but they
each do it in a different way
depending upon whether it's
initiating energy-- energy
like the Capricorn scampering
up the side of a cliff,
whether it's the Virgo, the
mutable, changeable thinking
about how it's going
to apply the energy,
or the Taurus, that's
absolutely firmly holding
the position no matter what.